---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Assignment 3 Checkpoint
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-05-15
labels:
  - Checkpoint
  - Assignment 3
---
<strong>Checkpoint A:</strong>
Describe your design for your site's shopping cart. That is, will it be a separate page that the user can view and edit, or will it be integrated into the product pages? If so, describe in detail how this will work on your site. Provide several examples of using the cart.
 
For the site’s shopping cart, it will be a separate page that the user can view and edit. That page will be connected to the multiple products pages. In the individual product pages the end of the page will have a button that says add to cart where all the quantities they selected in that page will be loaded into the cart as they continue shopping. Then from there after they finish adding items to the cart (the items will load into the cart through the use of sessions), they can click on the shopping cart tab in the navigation bar to see what they have selected and from that page it will show the items they selected, its price, the quantity, extended price, and will allow them to modify it if they want to. Then at the bottom it will have a purchase or a checkout button that leads them to the invoice page showing the invoice for all the products in their cart. The invoice page will show the sales receipt, the username of the user, the closing ment of thank you’s and notify them that a copy of it will be emailed to them through their email address. Examples of using the cart include adding to it from the products page whenever a consumer selects quantities and they can go into the cart to make modifications to their product quantities or just delete them before checking out. 

<strong>Checkpoint B:</strong>
Explain specifically how you will use sessions to manage your shopping cart. In particular, what shopping cart data will be stored in the session, what data format will be used (NOT what data type, but the format like with the data format used for your registration data). Use code examples showing what data structures (such as arrays and their keys) you will use to manage the shopping cart data and how they will be used in $_SESSION. 
 
I will create a session function and or storage that will save the data from the multiple products page and import it into the shopping cart page. When the customer clicks Add to Cart at the end of the page the session records the data as a JSON object then gets the data in the cart page. <a href="https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/180.Assignment3/reading-code-examples.html">This link</a> shows the examples of code I based my arrays and objects on in order to manage the shopping cart data and how I'll try to use them with the session. 
 
<strong>Checkpoint C:</strong>
How will you avoid access to your application when the user has not logged in or registered? What are the particular security concerns you must address?

In order to avoid access to the application if the user has not logged in or registered I tried to implement cookies to verify that the user has an account. If they do, I will direct them to the login page and if they don’t I will direct them to the registration page. If they don’t have an account they won’t be able to make a purchase (which I can do by setting an if/else statement that won’t let the user enter the invoice page without user information. The most particular security concern I would have to address is the one I mentioned above about the user just roaming around and making a purchase without any information. I plan to address that by implementing those statements to keep them out of the purchase page.  

<strong>Checkpoint D:</strong>
Upon a successful login, how do you provide personalization in your UI? Explain how you did or will do this (paste code if necessary):

After the user has successfully logged in, I plan to code an alert of sorts to welcome the user by their user information, which would be by name or username in order to personalize the UI. Additionally, in the invoice page, I have a ment all the way at the end that thanks the user for their purchases and says please come again. I specifically thank the user’s username then I plan to personalize it even more by displaying the email that the order/payment confirmation receipt was sent to. I plan to base this off of the example professor left for us in <a href="https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/180.Assignment3/reading-code-examples.html">assignment 3 examples<a/> on how to send a copy via email. 
 
<strong>Checkpoint E:</strong>
If you are working with partners, how will you split up the work in your team so that you are working in parallel as effectively as possible? That is, who is doing what and when?
 
I am working alone. I don’t have a partner. 

<strong>Checkpoint F:</strong>
How are you approaching Assignment 3 differently than Assignment 2?

I approached assignment 3 the same way I approached assignment 2. I tried to figure out the logic of what the assignment is asking me to do in order to lay out the steps I need to take to accomplish it. Then I skimmed over a few resources to see what I needed to use or how I could implement that into the code to do what the assignment is asking of me. What I am doing differently is looking at it at a simpler view because assignment 3’s code is technically supposed to be easier to write so I want to think about doing things simpler than using difficult functions. Additionally, the assignment itself is asking for different things of using sessions and cookies over query strings. 
