---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E3 Performing WODs
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-02-24
labels:
  - E3
  - Performing WODs Technical Essay
  - Invoice1! Invoice2!
  - Preparation
---
For this “Performing WODs Technical Essay” I had just completed Invoice1 and Invoice2 workout of the days. For <a href= "https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/060.expressions-operators/experience-invoice1.html">Invoice1</a>, we were supposed to create an “invoice” also known as a sales receipt that had 5 different items on it. We were supposed to include the price of each product and we had to have used expressions and variables in order to compute the various values dynamically; such as extended price, subtotal, tax, and grand total. For <a href="https://dport96.github.io/ITM352/morea/070.flow-control-I/experience-invoice2.html> Invoice2 </a>, we were tasked with adding on to Invoice1 by modifying the invoice with an algorithm to determine shipping cost. Both of these weren’t super easy but they were understandable and quite doable.

Invoice1 (25 minutes) took longer than invoice2 (10 minutes) as we were beginning the sales receipt table and the other was just making modifications. Most of the directions were pretty helpful in performing both of the WODs. I stumbled with the use of the $$ for a little in the beginning before fully realizing what it was doing. I preferred this WOD because of the little additions of math that was done with the code. 

In preparation to execute these WODs, I skimmed through the readings to get a better understanding of what I was to do and to see what I was supposed to use in order to get the desired results. Also, looking back at the labs that we did in class prior to doing the WODs were helpful because we tested some of the things we needed to do in the WOD making it slightly easier. For the WODs before this I did fairly the same things before doing the WOD. Sometimes I wouldn’t have time to do the pre-reading so I would just go for it but that usually doesn’t end well so I have to either look something up or ask for help. For future WODs, I believe in order to be fully prepared is to thoroughly read the pre-readings for the tasks you have to accomplish and use W3Schools for any code and functions that you might need. If I have a lot of time to complete future WODs, a good tip to be prepared is going through the instructions in one go and searching up what you think you would need then do the WOD instead of doing it step by step so that the execution is faster. 
